# AA PROJECT

## Perfect elimination order

Alpha is a perfect elimination order for a graph G if the fill-in set for G_alpha is empty.
v ->- w and v ->- x ----> w --- x or w == x

So a perfect elimination order defines the order in which we can eliminate verteces from a graph without adding new edges in the elimination process.

## 	BFS and perfect orderings

A BFS applyed to a graph G as the effect of generating a spanning tree of G and to partition the verticies of G into levels.

Each edge joins two vertices on the same level or on adjacent levels. Consider alpha a perfect elimination order for G, a vertex v joined to a vertex w with level(w) = level(v) +1 and to a vertex u with level(u) = level(v) - 1 then alpha^-1(v) > min(alpha^-1(u), alpha^-1(w)), since {u, w} is not an edge of G (because they are not on adjacent levels). This means that for sure v should be eliminated after one of the other two verteces and this also strongly suggest that any perfect elimination order is consistent with the partial ordering of by levels.

The problem is that computing a perfect elimination order with BFS became really complex.

## Lexicograpich search: minimal ordering (lexm)

Special type of BFS.

The verteces of the graph are numbered from n to 1 and during the search each vertex has an associated label. A label is a set of numbers selected from {1 ... n}, ordered in decresing order.

The order is defined using the labels (since we can define when a label L1 is greater or less than a label L2, page 14).

Any order generated by lexm is called a lexicographic ordering. Lexm attenpts to find not only perfect ordering but also minimal ones.

